**Link to narrative visualization website:** [https://akotte2.github.io/cs416_narrative_vis/] <br><br>
**Link to narrative visualization code repository:** [https://github.com/akotte2/cs416_narrative_vis] <br><br>
**Link to narrative visualization data source:** [https://www3.paho.org/data/index.php/en/mnu-topics/indicadores-dengue-en/dengue-nacional-en/252-dengue-pais-ano-en.html] <br><br>
*Messaging. [10 points] What is the message you are trying to communicate with the narrative visualization?* <br>
The message that I am trying to communicate is that while Dengue Fever caseloads are currently on the rise and setting record levels in South America, the severity of Dengue Fever in South America overall is decreasing. My narrative visualization examines various metrics for Dengue Fever in South America over the past 10 years (2014-2024). Scene 1 in my narrative visualization depicts the total number of Dengue Fever cases that occurred in South America during each of the past 10 years as a bar chart. While 2024 is not yet over, Scene 1 shows that South America has experienced record setting caseloads. This notably high caseload is highlighted by a chart annotation. Scene 2, a bar chart titled “Severe Dengue Fever Case Rate in South America by Year”, shows rate at which severe and hemorrhagic Dengue Fever occur given all Dengue Fever cases in South America. Essentially, this rate is the percentage of Dengue Fever cases within South America that were considered severe. Even though South America is seeing record caseloads this year, the severity of the disease is decreasing. 0.47% of cases were considered severe in 2014 whereas only 0.087% of cases have been considered severe in 2024. Scene 3 depicts the rate at which deaths occurred due to Dengue Fever in South America. For each year, this rate is the percentage of Dengue Fever cases that resulted in death. Similar to the severity metric, the death rate corroborates that the disease is becoming less intense. 0.063% of cases resulted in death in 2014 while only 0.047% of cases resulted in death this year thus far. While severity rate and death rate are not strictly decreasing over the past 10 years, 2014 is the year with the worst severity rate and death rate, which is why I chose to specifically call out 2014 in comparison with 2024. Comparing these two years further supports the message that gradually over time, Dengue Fever in South America is becoming less severe. Scene 4, on the other hand, enables users to explore these metrics – total caseload, severity rate, and death rate – on a country-by-country basis. Two drop downs allow users to select a South American country/territory and a disease metric to plot. Despite the continent trends, it is not true that each country in South America has record setting caseloads and decreasing severity in 2024. <br><br>
*Narrative Structure. [10 points] Which structure was your narrative visualization designed to follow (martini glass, interactive slide show or drop-down story)? How does your narrative visualization follow that structure? (All of these structures can include the opportunity to "drill-down" and explore. The difference is where that opportunity happens in the structure.)* <br>
My narrative visualization follows the martini glass structure. Scenes 1, 2, and 3 are completely author driven, taking the viewer down a narrow path designed by me. I designed each of these scenes without the ability for the user to interact with the content and charts, while guiding the user through the message I describe above using consistent colors, relevant annotations, and data visualization. Scene 4, on the other hand, opens the narrative visualization for user exploration by enabling the user to select a country they are interested in and then change which Dengue Fever metric appears on the bar chart. This reader-driven exploration enables viewers to better understand nuances that may exist among South American countries when it comes to Dengue Fever severity and caseloads over the past 10 years. By exploring individual countries and various Dengue Fever metrics for those countries, users can see that not every country has experienced record setting caseloads in 2024 and decreasing disease severity. However, Scenes 1 through 3 still support the overall message that South America as a whole is experiencing less severe Dengue Fever despite rising caseloads. <br><br>
*Visual Structure. [10 points] What visual structure is used for each scene? How does it ensure the viewer can understand the data and navigate the scene? How does it highlight to urge the viewer to focus on the important parts of the data in each scene? How does it help the viewer transition to other scenes, to understand how the data connects to the data in other scenes?* <br>
Each of the four scenes graphs the data using a bar chart. The descriptions in this paragraph are true for all four scenes. The x-axis is years (2014-2024) in ascending order, and the y-axis is one of the following metrics: total Dengue Fever cases, severe Dengue Fever case rate, or Dengue Fever death rate. Bar charts are easy for viewers to understand because they benefit from position (top of bar) and length (size of bar). Position and length are the top two cues for perceptual accuracy for quantitative variables. The color scheme is “gold” to “firebrick” with higher values colored closer to “firebrick”. I chose this particular color scheme because gold (yellow) tends to signal caution while firebrick (red) tends to signal danger. Following this logic, gold is used to indicate less Dengue cases/severe cases/deaths while firebrick is used to indicate more Dengue cases/severe cases/deaths. Any amount of Dengue Fever cases is considered bad, so I did not want to include colors with positive connotations in this dashboard. This color scheme therefore helps viewers understand the disease severity and urges viewers to focus on extreme values (most and least severe years). Using the same chart type and color scheme for all four scenes helps my viewers understand how the data connects to the data in each of the other scenes. Further, each bar chart is animated to gradually grow each bar within the chart to its full height in order of year every time a new scene’s page loads. This animation underscores to viewers that the scene, and therefore the data, is changing. This animation also occurs when a new country and/or metric is selected within Scene 4, again, to highlight to viewers how the data is changing. Finally, viewers can transition between scenes using previous and next buttons located along the bottom of the charts. The previous buttons are always on the left side, and the next buttons are always on the right side, which is intuitive for users. <br><br>
*Scenes. [10 points] What are the scenes of your narrative visualization? How are the scenes ordered, and why?* <br>
Scene 1 is a bar chart that depicts the total number of Dengue Fever cases across all countries in South America from 2014 to 2024. Scene 2 is a bar chart that depicts the rate (percentage) of Dengue Fever cases that are considered severe among all Dengue Fever cases across all countries in South America from 2014 to 2024. Scene 3 is a bar chart that depicts the rate (percentage) of Dengue Fever cases that resulted in death among all Dengue Fever cases across all countries in South America from 2014 to 2024. Scene 4 is a viewer-changeable bar chart in which the viewer selects both a country and a disease metric (total caseload, severity rate, death rate) to plot from 2014 to 2024. The data appearing in Scene 4 can be changed as many times as the viewer would like. Please note that for Scene 4, if no data appears on the bar chart, that means the selected country had a value of “0” according to the data source (linked above) for the selected metric for all years 2014 to 2024 inclusive. One example combination where this happens is when country = “Guyana” and metric = “Severity Rate”. I ordered the scenes 1, 2, and 3 in order of increasing consequence (outcome) of Dengue Fever. Death is the worst possible outcome, while a severe case of Dengue Fever is the second worst outcome. A case of Dengue Fever may or may not be bad. Severe cases are a subset of all cases, and similarly, cases resulting in death are a subset of all cases (and potentially of severe cases as well). Because I used the martini glass structure, I put Scene 4 last as it enables user-driven exploration of the nuances among various South American countries and of all three Dengue Fever metrics. <br><br>
*Annotations. [10 points] What template was followed for the annotations, and why that template? How are the annotations used to support the messaging? Do the annotations change within a single scene, and if so, how and why?* <br>
Scenes 1, 2, and 3 contain annotations. I used the D3-Annotation library [https://d3-annotation.susielu.com/] to generate all annotations. I used this template because, as a developer, it is easy to understand, and as a viewer, it provides clean and easy to read annotations. Scenes 1, 2, and 3 each have one to two annotations since they are part of the author-driven component of the martini glass structure. Each of these annotations follows the same visual structure, where the arrow points to the top right of the bar that the annotation references, and the annotation text is found towards the bottom right of the arrow. The text within each annotation highlights my messaging by pointing out the record level of Dengue Fever cases in 2024 in Scene 1, and the decrease in severity rate and death rate from 2014 to 2024 in Scenes 2 and 3 respectively. The annotations do not change during the scenes. <br><br>
*Parameters. [10 points] What are the parameters of the narrative visualization? What are the states of the narrative visualization? How are the parameters used to define the state and each scene?* <br>
The first parameter of the scenes in my narrative visualization is the bar chart domain. The domain (x-axis values) do not change between scenes; it always spans the years 2014 to 2024 in ascending order. The second parameter is the bar chart range. This parameter changes based on the data being plotted. In each scene, the maximum value of the y-axis is the maximum of the Dengue Fever metric displayed for either South America as a whole (Scenes 1, 2, and 3) or for a specific South American country (Scene 4). The third parameter is the Dengue Fever metric being plotted, which can take the following three states: total cases, severe case rate, and death rate. The fourth parameter is the country or region being plotted, which can take the state of either South America as a whole or any of the 13 countries/territories within South America. Parameters three and four influence the data that appears in each scene and therefore the height of each bar. This pair of parameters also influence parameter two. <br><br>
*Triggers. [10 points] What are the triggers that connect user actions to changes of state in the narrative visualization? What affordances are provided to the user to communicate to them what options are available to them in the narrative visualization?* <br>
There are two sets of triggers in my narrative visualization. The first set of triggers are the previous and next buttons. Scene 1 only has a next button, Scene 4 only has a previous button, and Scenes 2 and 3 have both. Each previous button will move the viewer to the scene with the number one less than the current scene. Each next button will move the viewer to the scene with the number one greater than the current scene. Each of these buttons clearly appears as a button object within the scene, and the scene change action occurs immediately upon clicking the button. The previous buttons are logically located on the bottom left of the screen while the next buttons are located on the bottom right of the screen. The next set of triggers is available in Scene 4 and involves the dropdown menus to choose which country and metric to plot. The dropdown menus have clear instructions to the user, located to the left of each dropdown, to communicate what action the user is supposed to take to operate the related trigger. Upon the selection of a new value in either dropdown by the user, the bar chart in Scene 4 will re-plot with the user’s desired country and metric pairing. 